docs(auth): social-login/Google - Nonce hashing requirement for successful validation (#16239)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/pages/guides/auth/social-login/auth-google.mdx

Use of nonce is recommended, though optional. Make sure each nonce is generated randomly and available both in the `data-nonce` attribute as well as in the `handleSignInWithGoogle` callback function; otherwise the ID token will not be accepted.

> ### Important Note on Nonce Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Important Note on Nonce Validation

```

### Important Note on Nonce Validation

Supabase Auth expects the nonce in Google's ID token to be hashed (specifically with SHA-256 and represented as a hexadecimal string).

To succeed with nonce validation, you will need to provide a hashed version of the nonce to Google and the non-hashed version to the `signInWithIdToken` method.

The following code snippet provides an example of how to create both versions in a web application:

```js
// Adapted from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#converting_a_digest_to_a_hex_string

import crypto from 'crypto';

...

const nonce = crypto.randomBytes(16).toString('base64'); // Generate a random nonce
const encoder = new TextEncoder();
const encodedNonce = encoder.encode(nonce); // Encode the nonce
const hash = await crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-256', encodedNonce); // Hash it with SHA-256
const bytes = new Uint8Array(hash);
const hashedNonce = Array.from(bytes)
  .map((b) => b.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')) // Convert the hash to a hexadecimal string
  .join('');
  
// Use 'hashedNonce' when making the authentication request to Google

> // Use 'nonce' when invoking the supabase.auth.signInWithIdToken() method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Use 'nonce' when invoking the supabase.auth.signInWithIdToken() method
```
```

Use of nonce is recommended, though optional. Make sure each nonce is generated randomly and available both in the `data-nonce` attribute as well as in the `handleSignInWithGoogle` callback function; otherwise the ID token will not be accepted.

### Important Note on Nonce Validation

> When implementing nonce validation there is a specific requirement to understand:
> 
> Supabase's GoTrue expects the nonce to be hashed (specifically with SHA-256, and then converted to a hexadecimal string), however Google's ID token will contain the raw value of the provided nonce.
> 
> To succeed with nonce validation, you will need to provide a hashed version of the nonce to Google and the non-hashed version to the Supabase client.
> 
> The following code snippet provides an example of how to create both versions in a web application:
> 
> ```
> import crypto from 'crypto';
> 
> ...
> 
> const nonce = crypto.randomBytes(16).toString('base64'); // Generate a random nonce
> const encoder = new TextEncoder();
> const encodedNonce = encoder.encode(nonce); // Encode the nonce
> const hash = await crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-256', encodedNonce); // Hash it with SHA-256
> const bytes = new Uint8Array(hash);
> const hashedNonce = Array.from(bytes)
>   .map((b) => b.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')) // Convert the hash to a hexadecimal string
>   .join('');
> 
> // Use 'nonce' when passing to Supabase's client
> // Use 'hashedNonce' when passing to Google's authentication request
> ```
> 
> By following this approach, you'll ensure that the nonces are handled in a way that is compatible with both Google's and Supabase's expectations, allowing successful authentication.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supabase Auth expects the nonce in Google's ID token to be hashed (specifically with SHA-256 and represented as a hexadecimal string).

To succeed with nonce validation, you will need to provide a hashed version of the nonce to Google and the non-hashed version to the `signInWithIdToken` method.

The following code snippet provides an example of how to create both versions in a web application:

```js
// Adapted from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest#converting_a_digest_to_a_hex_string

import crypto from 'crypto';

...

const nonce = crypto.randomBytes(16).toString('base64'); // Generate a random nonce
const encoder = new TextEncoder();
const encodedNonce = encoder.encode(nonce); // Encode the nonce
const hash = await crypto.subtle.digest('SHA-256', encodedNonce); // Hash it with SHA-256
const bytes = new Uint8Array(hash);
const hashedNonce = Array.from(bytes)
  .map((b) => b.toString(16).padStart(2, '0')) // Convert the hash to a hexadecimal string
  .join('');
  
// Use 'hashedNonce' when making the authentication request to Google
// Use 'nonce' when invoking signInWithIdToken

```

```
